Section seven Advanced Topics.
In this section, we'll cover best practices with physics, optimizing physics, predicting physics
trajectory, as well as data oriented technology.
Stack word dots for unity physics.
Best practices with physics.
In this video, we will cover the best practices you should do.
We'll see the inefficient steps to be avoided and we'll look at the best project set up for best performance.
Gotchas, dos and Don'ts.
Gotchas are the helpful hints, which are not always obvious when developing.
DOS are the best practices that give us smooth results, and the don't list will be things to avoid
because they create bottlenecks or otherwise bad performance.
Some general gotchas.
First of all, when you're setting up your project, mimic the world scale.
A common problem when you start out with rigid bodies is things look like they're in slow motion.
This is actually just due to scale the default gravity settings.
Assume that you have units corresponding to two units high for a human or four units long for a car.
So try to use those scale are pretty close to it.
Determinism.
Generally speaking, today's unity physics is not deterministic.
That means that it's not going to repeat the exact same result on every machine every time.
This is due to the way that different compilers and processors implement their math.
However, in the future, Unity dots physics promises determinism.
Some general dos choose to DD versus three d smartly.
If you're doing a 2D project, don't use the three d physics components.
It's overkill static for each game object or go in a project.
Set them to static.
If you notice they're not moving.
This is floor background platform elements.
It's a great optimization.
Next, keep your scale at one If you can try to keep your objects scales at one that will maximize the
performance for rigid body and joints movement Use rigid body move position and move rotation instead
of direct transform access or use.
Add force and add torque.
As we talked about before, joints use small differences less than ten times different in the masses
between rigid body components that'll give you smoother results, things you shouldn't do in a general
sense.
Avoid making rotation or scale changes because this recreates the colliders and it's expensive to do.
Don't use mesh colliders if you can get away with it, use these simpler primitive colliders box sphere,
etc. If you can even add multiple because mesh colliders are very expensive to operate and avoid using
wheel colliders, they're also very expensive.
Some recasting tips things to do use the least amount of raise to get the job done.
Try to be specific using layer masks on your ray casts things not to do.
Don't extend the rays length more than you need to.
If you know more or less that your level is 100 units, try and set that as the max so you're not scanning
out into infinity, which is expensive.
And don't use Ray cast against Mesh Collider.
It's really expensive.
Some good tips for Unity Project setup.
Optimize the layer collision matrix.
You can see it at the bottom of the screenshot.
By default, everything collides with everything you know.
After you get your project set up, go ahead and uncheck the boxes that aren't needed.
It's going to lead to better results for ragdoll use, equal mass for all rigid bodies.
Avoid using small limit spans like five or 15 or more.
That's better if it's jittery.
Update the default solver iterations use 20 or more.
Some project settings in the time area do tweak the fix time step tweak it to reach a good compromise
between accuracy, which is a high value, and the CPU spent on physics, which is a low value.
You can see there that if we tweak it to like 0.1, that means we're still getting ten physics updates
per second and that's pretty good.
Tweak the maximum allowed timestamp as well, use 8 to 10 to cap the time spent on physics in your worst
case scenario.
Do use the unity profiler periodically, even during early development, open it up and investigate
what large spikes in performance you have.
Look for warnings to also it'll show a warning there.
If, for example, you accidentally move something marked static, which is possible at gameplay, but
really expensive.
In the next video, we'll talk about optimizing physics.